In the recent years, neural networks have been able to achieve a performance nearly identical to the Visual Cortex of primate brain in recognition and classification of objects 1-4. Also, recent studies have shown that the initial layers and the final layers of a convolutional neural network are similar to the initial and final layers of the Visual Cortex of the primate brain. Some neural networks, especially convolutional neural networks or CNN for short, simulate the known structure of the initial layers of the Visual Cortex of primate brain and iterate these layers one after another. This is repeated until the neural network is formed. The terminal and more advanced parts of the Visual Cortex of the primate brain are mostly unknown, but there is hope that the structure and function of the advanced layers of the primate brain would automatically emerge in neural networks. If so, comparing the structure of neural networks with the Visual Cortex can provide us with a shortcut to study and discover the structure and function of the advanced layers of the Visual Cortex of the primate brain. Here, we compare the data from the Inferior Temporal Gyrus cortex (IT for short) of macaque’s brain with the output of all layers of several Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) for identical images, and we try to verify the claim that the final layers of primate Visual Cortex and neural networks are similar. Moreover, we measure the effect of frequency (such as whether the image is blurry or sharp) on the behavior and output of neural network layers as well as the macaque’s brain. The reason for conducting these studies is to better and more clearly understand the function of the Visual Cortex and to find similarities and differences between the Visual Cortex and neural networks. This will help us, firstly, to study the advanced layers of the Visual Cortex in detail and second, design new neural networks in such a way that are as functionally similar to the Visual Cortex of the brain as possible. The results obtained in the end are graphs of the Visual Cortex and 9 different neural networks, which show that the frequency of images greatly affects the neural networks’ performance, whereas this effect on the Visual Cortex’s performance is insignificant. We also concluded that the correlation of CNNs and the Visual Cortex is affected by the image frequency, and there isn’t necessarily a ‘similarity’ between layers of CNNs and the Visual Cortex.
